On those grounds, 
THE COURT, 
in answer to the questions referred to it by the Landesgericht Linz by order of 26 March 1997, hereby rules: 
1. Article 7 of Council Directive 90/314/EEC of 13 June 1990 on package travel, package holidays and package tours applies to trips which are offered by a daily newspaper as a gift exclusively to its subscribers as part of an advertising campaign that contravenes national competition law and for which the principal contractor, if he travels alone, pays airport taxes and a single-room supplement or, if he is accompanied by one or more persons paying the full rate, airport taxes only. 
2. A Member State which acceded to the European Union on 1 January 1995 has not properly transposed Article 7 of Directive 90/314 if it has adopted legislation which protects travellers who have booked package travel after 1 January 1995 but limits that protection to trips with a departure date of 1 May 1995 or later. 
3. Transposition of Article 7 of Directive 90/314 in a way that limits the protection prescribed by that provision to trips with a departure date four months or more after the expiry of the period prescribed for transposing the directive constitutes a sufficiently serious breach of Community law, even where the Member State has implemented all the other provisions of the directive. 
4. Article 7 of Directive 90/314 has not been properly transposed where national legislation does no more than require, for the coverage of the risk, a contract of insurance or a bank guarantee under which the amount of cover provided must be no less than 5% of the organiser's turnover during the corresponding quarter of the previous calendar year, and which requires an organiser just starting up in business to base the amount of cover on his estimated turnover from his intended business as a travel organiser and does not take account of any increase in the organiser's turnover in the current year. 
5. Once a direct causal link has been established, a Member State's liability for breach of Article 7 of Directive 90/314 cannot be precluded by imprudent conduct on the part of the travel organiser or by the occurrence of exceptional or unforeseeable events. 

