

1.
 Article 7(2) of Council Directive 84/450/EEC of 10 September 1984 on misleading and comparative advertising, as amended by
            Directive 97/55/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 October 1997, precludes the application to comparative
            advertising of stricter national provisions on protection against misleading advertising as far as the form and content of
            the comparison is concerned, without there being any need to establish distinctions between the various elements of the comparison,
            that is to say statements concerning the advertiser's offer, statements concerning the competitor's offer and the relationship
            between those offers. 
            

2.
 Article 3a(1)(a) of Directive 84/450, as amended, must be interpreted as meaning that, whereas the advertiser is in principle
            free to state or not to state the brand name of rival products in comparative advertising, it is for the national court to
            verify whether, in particular circumstances, characterised by the importance of the brand in the buyer's choice and by a major
            difference between the respective brand names of the compared products in terms of how well known they are, omission of the
            better-known brand name is capable of being misleading. 
            

3.
 Article 3a(1) of Directive 84/450, as amended, does not preclude compared products from being purchased through different
            distribution channels.  
            

4.
 Article 3a(1) of Directive 84/450, as amended, does not preclude an advertiser from carrying out a test purchase with a competitor
            before his own offer has even commenced, where the conditions for the lawfulness of comparative advertising set out therein
            are complied with. 
            

5.
 A price comparison does not entail the discrediting of a competitor, within the meaning of Article 3a(1)(e) of Directive 84/450,
            as amended, either on the grounds that the difference in price between the products compared is greater than the average price
            difference or by reason of the number of comparisons made.  Article 3a(1)(e) of Directive 84/450, as amended, does not prevent
            comparative advertising, in addition to citing the competitor's name, from reproducing its logo and a picture of its shop
            front, if that advertising complies with the conditions for lawfulness laid down by Community law. 
            

